so far we've been talking about SVM's in
a fairly abstract level in this video
I'd like to talk about what you actually
need to do in order to run or to use an
SVM the support vector machine algorithm
poses a particular optimization problem
but as I briefly mentioned in an earlier
video I really do not recommend use
writing your own software to solve for
the parameters data yourself so just as
today very few of us or maybe almost
essentially none of us would think of
writing code ourselves to invert the
matrix or take a square root of a number
and so on we just you know call some
library function to do that in the same
way the software for solving the SVM
optimization problem is very complex and
there be researchers they've been doing
essentially numerical optimization
research for many years to come up with
good software libraries and good
software packages to do this and I
strongly recommend just using one of the
highly optimized software libraries
rather than trying to implement
something yourself and there are lots of
good software libraries out there the
tools I happen to use the most often on
the linear in live SVM but they're
really lots of good software libraries
for doing this that you know you can
link to many of the major programming
languages that you may be using to code
up a learning algorithm even though you
shouldn't be writing your own SVM
optimization software there are a few
things you need to do though first is to
come up with some choice of the
parameter C we talked a little bit about
the bias-variance properties of this in
an earlier video second you also need to
choose the kernel or the similarity
function that you want to use so one
choice might be we decide not to use any
kernel and the idea of no kernel is also
called a linear kernel so someone says I
use an SVM with a linear kernel what
that means is you know they use an SVM
without using without using a kernel and
it was the version of the SVM that just
uses theta transpose X right there
predicts one if they - 0 plus theta 1 x1
plus so on plus theta n
X n is greater than equal to 0 and this
term linear kernel you can think of this
as you know this is the version of the
SVM that just gives you a standard
linear classifier so that would be one
reasonable choice for some problems and
you know there are many software
libraries like lib mean linear with one
example all the menus one example of a
software library that can train an SVM
without using a kernel also called a
linear kernel so when would you want to
do this well if you have a large number
of features if n is large and M the
number of training examples is small
then you know you have a huge number of
features that X differ this is an X in
RN RN plus 1 so you have a huge number
of features already but the small
training set you know maybe you want to
just fit a linear decision boundary and
not try to fit a very complicated
nonlinear function because you might not
have enough data you might risk
overfitting maybe trying to fit a very
complicated function in a very high
dimensional feature space but if your
training set is soft this is small so
this would be one reasonable setting
where you might decide to not just use
to just not use a kernel or equivalent
to use what's called a linear kernel a
second choice for the kernel of the UN
make is this Gaussian kernel and this is
what we had previously and if you do
this then the other choice you need to
make is to choose this parameter Sigma
squared when we also talked a little bit
about the bias variance trade-offs of
how if Sigma squared is large then you
tend to have a higher bias lower
variance classifier but if Sigma squared
is small then you have a higher variance
lower bias classifier so when might you
choose the Gaussian kernel well if you
if your original features X Arbonne are
N and if n is small
oh and ideally you know if n
is large right so that's if you know we
have say a two dimensional training set
like you're not like the example I drew
earlier so then it's equal to two but we
have a pretty large training set so you
know I've drawn in the fairly large
number of training examples then maybe
you want to use the kernel to fit a more
complex nonlinear decision boundary and
the Gaussian kernel would be a fine way
to do this I'll say more towards the end
of video a little bit more about when
you might choose the linear kernel or a
Gaussian kernel and so on but if
concretely if you decide to use a
Gaussian kernel then here's what you
need to do depending on what support
vector machine software package you use
it may ask you to implement a kernel
function or to implement the similarity
function so if you are using an octave
or MATLAB implementation of an SVM it
may ask you to provide a function to
compute a particular feature of the
kernel so this is really computing f
subscript I for one particular value of
I where F here is just a single real
number so maybe I should make this
better written FY but what you need to
do is write a kernel function that takes
this input you know a training example
or a test example whatever it takes in
some vector X and takes this input one
of the landmarks and but only up calling
them x1 and x2 here because the
landmarks are really training examples
as well but what you need to do is write
software that takes as input you know x1
x2 and confuse this sort of similarity
function between them and return a real
number and so what some support vector
machine packages will do is expect you
to provide this kernel function that
takes us input you know x1 x2 and
returns a real number and then it will
take it from there and it will
automatically generate all the features
so automatically you know take X and map
it into f1 f2 down to FM using this
function that you write and generate all
the features and train the support
vector machine from there but sometimes
you do need to provide this function
yourself
although if you are using the Gaussian
kernel some some SVM implementations
will also include the Gaussian kernel
and a few other kernels as well since
the Gaussian kernel is probably the most
common kernel Gaussian and linear
kernels are related to most popular
kernels by far
just one implementation note if you have
features are very different scales it is
important to perform feature scaling
before using the Gaussian kernel and
here's why if you imagine computing the
norm between X and L right so this term
here instead like the numerator term
over there what this is doing the norm
between X and now that's really saying
you know let's compute the vector V
which is equal to X minus L and then
let's compute write the norm of this
vector V which is the difference Union
exit and so the norm of V is really
equal to v1 squared plus v2 squared plus
dot dot plus VN squared because here X
is in R and no RN plus 1 but I'm going
to ignore you know X 0 because let's
pretend X is an RN for square square on
the left side so what it means is
correct and so you know this is equal to
that's right and so written differently
this is going to be x1 minus l1 squared
plus x2 minus l2 squared plus 1 divided
by X n minus Ln squared and now if your
features take on very different ranges
of values so take a housing prediction
example when you try to if your data is
some data about houses and if X is in
the range of you know thousands of
square feet right to put for the
first few x1 but if your second feature
x2 is the number of bedrooms so if this
is you know in the range of one to five
bedrooms then x1 minus l1 is going to be
huge this could be like a thousand
squared whereas x2 minus l2 is going to
be much smaller and if that's the case
then
in this term those distances will be
almost essentially dominated by two
sizes by the sizes of the houses and the
number of bedrooms will be largely
ignored and so to avoid this in order to
make an NCO work well doing perform do
perform feature scaling and that will
make sure that the SVM gives you no
comparable amount of attention to all of
your different features and not just two
in this example the size of houses while
big norming the other features when
you're applying a support vector machine
chances are by far the two most common
kernels you use will be the linear
kernel meaning no kernel or the Gaussian
kernel that we talked about and just one
note of warning which is that not all
similarity functions you might come up
with are valid kernels and the Gaussian
kernel and the linear kernel and other
kernels that you sometimes others will
use all of them need to satisfy a
technical condition it's called vs.
theorem and the reason you need to do
this is because support vector machine
of algorithms or implementations of the
SVM have lots of clever numerical
optimization tricks in order to solve
for the parameters data efficiently and
in the original design of SDS there was
a there was a decision made to restrict
our attention only to kernels that
satisfy this technical condition called
Mercer's theorem and what that does is
that make sure that all of these SVM
packages all of these SVM software
packages can use a large class of
optimizations and get the parameter beta
theta very quickly so what most people
end up doing is using either the linear
the Gaussian kernel but there are a few
other kernels that also satisfy Mercer's
theorem and that you may run across
other people using although I Percy end
up using other kernels you know very
very rarely if at all just to mention
some of the other kernels that you may
run across one is the polynomial kernel
and for that the similarity between X
and L is defined as there lot of options
I guess you can take X transpose L
squared so you know here's one measure
of how similar X
right if X and L are very close to each
other then the inner product will tend
to be large and and so you know this is
a slightly unusual kernel that's not
used that often but it works but you may
run across some people using it this is
one version of polynomial kernel and
other is an X transpose L cubed or these
are all examples of the polynomial
kernel which runs develop last one cubed
x transpose L plus may be number
different than 1 by 5 and n notes in
power of 4 and so the polynomial kernel
actually has two parameters one is what
number do you add over here it could be
0 this is really at 1 0 over there as
well as what's the degree of the
polynomial so the degree the power and
this number is in the more general form
with this of the polynomial kernel is X
transpose L plus some constant and then
to some degree in the exponent and so
both of these are parameters for the
polynomial kernel so the polynomial
kernel almost always or usually performs
worse than the Gaussian kernel and is
not used that much but it's just
something that you may run across
usually is used only for data where X
and L are all strictly non-negative and
so that ensures that these inner
products are never negative but this is
the captaincies intuition that if X and
O are very similar to each other that
maybe the inner product between them
will be large and then has some other
properties as well but people then tend
not to use it much and then depending on
what you're doing there are other more
esoteric kernels as well that you may
come across so there's a string kernel
this is sometimes use if your input data
is you know text strings or other types
of strings there are things like the
chi-square kernel the histogram section
kernel and so on there are sort of more
esoteric kernels that you can use to
measure similarity between different
objects so for example if you're trying
to do some sort of text classification
problem we were XD
xs/s string then maybe you want to
define the similarity between two
strings using the strengths kernel but I
personally you know end up very rarely
if at all using these more esoteric
kernels I think I might have used the
chi-square kernel may be once in my life
in the histogram kernel maybe once or
twice in my life and I've actually never
used a sweet kernel myself but in case
you run across this in other
applications you know if you do a quick
web search we do a quick Google search
or quick bing search you should find
definitions of these other kernels as
well
so just two last details I want to talk
about in this video
one is multi-class classification so if
you have four classes or more general UK
classes how do you get an SEM to output
some appropriate decision boundary
between your multiple classes most SVM
well many SVM packages already have
built-in multi-class classification
functionality so you're using a package
like that you just use that built-in
functionality and that you'll find
otherwise
one way to do this is to use the one
versus all method that we talked about
when we're developing logistic
regression so what you do is you train
KS VMs if you have K classes want to
distinguish each of the classes from the
rest and this would give you K parameter
vectors so this will give you you know
theta one which is trying to distinguish
class y equals one from all the other
classes then you get a separate
parameter vector theta two which is what
you get when you you know have y equals
two as the positive class and all the
others as negative parts and so on up to
a parameter vector theta K which is the
parameter vector for distinguishing the
final class of class K for everything
else and then lastly this is are exactly
the same as a one versus all method we
have for logistic regression really you
just predict the class I with the
largest theater translator R transpose X
so let's multi-class classification
Bayes nets for the more common cases
that there's a good chance that whatever
software package you use you know
there'll be a reasonable chance that
will already have built in multi-class
classification functionality and so you
don't even need to worry about this
result finally we developed support
vector machines starting off with
logistic regression and then modifying
the cost function a little bit so the
last thing I want to do in this video is
just say a little bit about when you
would use one of these two algorithms so
let's say n is the number of features
and M is the number of training examples
so when should we use one algorithm
versus the other well if n is large
relative to your training set size so
for example if you think of this as if
the number of features is much larger
than M
and this might be for example if you
have a text classification problem where
you know the dimension of your feature
vectors don't know maybe ten thousand
and if your training set size is maybe
ten you know maybe up to one thousand to
imagine the spam classification problem
where email spam where you have ten
thousand features corresponding to ten
thousand words but you have you know
maybe 10 training examples or maybe up
to a thousand examples so if n is large
relative to M then what I would usually
do is use logistic regression or use an
SVM without a kernel or use it with a
linear kernel because if you have so
many features but smaller training set
you know a linear function will probably
do fine and you don't have really enough
data to fit a very complicated nonlinear
function now if n is small and M is
intermediate so what I mean by this is
if you know if n is it may be anywhere
from one to a thousand one would be very
small but me up to a thousand features
and if the number of training examples
it's may be anywhere from you know 10 10
to maybe up to ten thousand examples
maybe up to 50 thousand examples so if M
is pretty big like maybe ten thousand
but not a million active so if M is
intermediate size then often an SVM with
a linear current won't work well we
talked about this earlier as well of a
one country the example of this would be
if you have a two dimensional training
set so if n is equal to two but you have
you know drawing in a pretty large
number of training examples
so Gaussian kernel would do a pretty
good job separating positive a negative
horses one third setting does of
interest is if n is small but M is large
so if n is you know gain maybe one to a
thousand could be larger but ever M was
on you know maybe 50,000 and greater to
millions it's a fifty thousand a hundred
thousand million Julianne
and have very very large training set
sizes right so this is the case then an
SVM with a Gaussian kernel will be
somewhat slow to run today's SVM
packages if you're using a Gaussian
kernel tend to struggle a bit if you
have you know maybe 50,000 is okay but
if you have a million training examples
maybe even a hundred thousand with your
massive value of em today's SVM packages
are very good but they can still
struggle a little bit when you have a
massive massive training set size and
using a thousand kernel so in that case
what I would usually do is try to just
manually create or add more features and
then use logistic regression or an SVM
without a kernel and in case you look at
this slide and you see logistic
regression or SVM without a kernel in
both of these places I kind of paired
them together well does the reason for
that is that logistic regression and svm
without a kernel those are really pretty
similar algorithms and you know either
logistic regression or SVM without a
kernel we usually do pretty similar
things and give pretty similar
performance but depending on your
implementational details one may be more
efficient than the other but where one
of these algorithms applies they're just
regression well as we would all occur
and all the other one is likely to work
pretty well as well but a lot of the
power of the SVM is when you use
different kernels to learn complex
nonlinear functions and then this this
regime you know when you have not when
you have maybe up to 10,000 examples
maybe up to 50,000 and and and your
number of features this is reasonably
large maybe that's a very common regime
and maybe that's a regime where a
support vector machine with a Gaussian
kernel will shine you can do things the
harder to do that
rushon and finally whether neural
networks fit in well for all of these
problems both of all of these different
regimes a neural network or
well-designed neural network is likely
to work well as well the one
disadvantage one reason that might not
sometimes use the neural network is that
for some of these problems the neural
network might be slower to train but if
you have a very good SVM implementation
package that could run faster quite a
bit faster of the new neural network and
although we didn't show this earlier it
turns out that the optimization problem
that the SVM has is a convex
optimization problem and so the good SVM
optimization software packages will
always find a global minimum or
something close to it and so for the SVM
you don't need to worry about local
optima in practice local Opterons a huge
problem for new networks but they all
also use one less thing to worry about
if you're using an SVM and depending on
your problems in your network may be
slower especially in this sort of regime
than the SVM in case the guidelines I
gave here seem a little bit again if you
look at some problems and you see if you
like you know the guidelines of the day
I'm still not entirely sure should I use
this algorithm or that algorithm that's
that's actually ok when I face the
machine learning problem you know
sometimes it's actually just not clear
what is the best algorithm to use but so
as you saw in earlier videos really you
know the algorithm does matter but what
often matters even more is things like
how much data do you have and how
skilled are you how good are you doing
error analysis and debugging learning
algorithms figuring out how to design
new features or figure out what other
features to give you learning error and
so on and often those things will matter
more than you're using a logistic
regression or an SVM but having said
that the SVM is the widely perceived as
one of the most powerful learning
algorithms and there is this regime
when there's a very effective way to
learn complex nonlinear functions and so
I actually together with logistic
regression neural networks SVM's
using those to be learning algorithms
you're I think very well positioned to
bill
state-of-the-art you know machine
learning systems but wide range of
applications and this is another very
powerful tool to have in your arsenal
one that is used all over the place in
Silicon Valley or in industry and in
academia to build many high-performance
machine learning systems